Hi.
In order to save our data in the small database that I have been talking about Reagan a learn about
the user defaults in this lecture.
So far we have been getting the information from the user about V.
Haven't been able to save them.
So we're going to use user defaults as you type user defaults.
It shows you the description that this is an interface to use user defaults database.
So this kind of a small database that you can store some single value.
Okay.
And if you read the description it will store this in a key value pairings like we did in the dictionaries.
So it's not very practical when it comes to large set of data.
But we're going to work with small ones and I have to say standard after this.
And this will create these shared defaults object for me so whenever I call this user defaults dot standard
it will return me the same object Regan to learn what an object is in the object oriented programming
sections but right now know that when I create a string for example it creates an object.
OK.
So I say let my string is something and let my string to is something else.
So I'm creating different kinds of objects.
OK so they have the other different values there are different objects like this.
So this is my string too.
And this completely different object from my string but very ever.
I called User defaults.
That's standard.
I get the same object so I can't reach the same data that I have been working on.
And after that you're going to say sets and as you can see it asks for a key and the value.
So we can store your l billion double faulting teacher string because for whatever we want in here all
we have to do is just come up with a value and a key like in the dictionaries.
So choose any of this.
And for value I'm going to save name tax field up text for example.
OK so name tax field dot text and you can make this force our app because we know there's going to be
a text and in the name an end in the key I'm going to go for a name and it doesn't matter what I write
in here I can just write James over here I can write my own name I still over here but you have to make
sure that you don't forget this key because we're going to need it later on.
Let me try to call this towards value OK so make sure there's something logical.
Make sure does make sense to you.
So I'm gonna go for a key name.
Of course we're gonna have to call and do the same thing for birthday text as well.
So I'm going to set the value as a birthday text field that tax with four stone wrap and the key will
be birth day.
So I believe that's OK.
And after this maybe you see some documentation on the Internet or some other researches maybe they're
trying to call these user defaults that standardized synchronize.
But this is an old method.
OK.
You don't need that anymore so I'm not going to do that.
Maybe I can just leave it as a note but you don't have to code is right now we will just stir this data
without having to do anything else.
So this will actually save the data.
Right.
Were you going to save this data in a database but without having to call this without having to get
this data from database we cannot show it to the user and we have to do this in the we did load.
Why.
Because after the user closes down the application and opens it again we did load will be called and
that's then we want to get this data and show it to the user because once I click save it will display
in the name and birthday labels anyway.
But when I reopen the app the vert and birthday and name labels will be empty.
That's why I need to get the Zeta in the we did load to display them in the name label and birthdate
labels so let me create a variable called starred name.
And in order to get this I'm going to call user defaults dot standard dot object and when I say object
it asks for a key and it gives me an any object.
As you can see.
So remember any.
We don't know this type.
OK.
We don't know whether Disney's a string or just is an integer.
So we had to cast this as a string.
After we get this.
So this is any optional.
Okay.
And remember our name is name.
So this will check to see if there is a name it will give it to me.
But how can I cast this to be a string.
Because right now I cannot just say name label dot text is your name.
We're going to see how to do that.
So let's start birthday user default standard object for key birthday so I'm doing exactly the same
thing and I'm using exactly the same keys over here.
So suppose that I get star name and start birthday.
So can I come over here and say name label text is star name.
I cannot say that right because it's any right now any optional.
And I don't want to do it that way anyway because once I do that I will get this error.
So let me click on this.
And as you can see it says that you cannot convert this to string optional unless you do something.
So what are we going to do.
Can I say can I do a casting like we did before with S but also there are two types of castings as optional
and as first unwrapped so how do we do that.
Can I say as optional strings.
So this will attempt to convert this to a string.
And if it works it's fine.
And if it doesn't work it won't crash.
Right.
So this is good.
But if I do it like this it will definitely try to convert does into a string.
And if it fails the app will crash.
So remember when we use does exclamation point we need to be very careful and we need to be certain
of ourselves.
So I'm going to go for even more robust more safer way to do this.
I'm going to control this to be and Neil variable with it flat.
OK.
So we have seen this before right.
VK actually come across a situation like this where we have to decide between optional and force and
wrapping.
He can use it flat.
So I'm going to say if let my name surname as optional strings.
So this is very good.
Then in here I can just take this my name and let it be my new name label dot text.
Right.
Because if this works it means that stirred name will be cast of this string.
And my name can be my title.
Right now we face if I say my name.
This is not an optional.
This is just as strange.
This is not optional strings.
If this works it will display if it doesn't work.
It won't happen.
It won't happen to be crashing or it won't display anything.
So let me just change this to new name because we we're going to have a new birthday or here as well
in order to avoid confusion.
I'm just going to use new.
So start birthday as string.
And this will be the same thing birthday labeled are taxed is new birthday.
So this is cool right.
If it works out then it's OK.
If it doesn't work out don't do anything else.
Just don't crash my app.
So let me run this and see if we can get the same results.
So we don't get anything right now because we haven't save it yet.
So let's go for Dave and Jen 20.
OK and let's close this down and I'll put it one more time and let's see if we can see the results.
Here you go.
We see the day when we see the birthday in here.
So right now we have saved this entire database and we managed to get that information from that database
and we're displaying the result to the user.
So that's how you work with user defaults.
It's very practical with a simple line of code.
We managed to save the stuff and with a simple line of code we managed to get the stuff back from database.
And when it comes to big set of data this doesn't make sense because you have to create so many variables
but it's much easier to work with this if you're going to if you're looking for saving one data or two
data then this is perfect for you.
OK.
And if you're looking for saving like a one thousand data points then this doesn't even make sense to
you.
And again we're how learns about casting in here.
OK.
So first casting an optional casting and the best way to do that in here is to do this with the optional
casting with if let's and we had to learn one more thing we don't know how to delete this data from
this database.
So I'm going to replace this Dave or I'm just I just want to delete him from my database.
How do I do that.
We have to learn about that as well.
And we're going to do that within the next lecture.